---
title: About the service
---

## Sources

During the development phase of the SSH Open Marketplace, we identified and
prioritised trusted sources from which we gather information to populate the SSH
Open Marketplace. In an initial onboarding phase (first half of 2020), 1,500 we
ingested individual resources – tools and services, training materials and
workflows. Thanks to an extended population phase (second half of 2020), the
beta version of the Marketplace now includes over 5,000 individual items, coming
from the following sources:

<div style={{ display: 'grid', gridTemplateColumns: '150px 1fr', gap: '2rem 1rem' }}>


![TAPoR logo](/assets/images/source_TAPoR_logo.png "TAPoR logo")

[TAPoR](http://tapor.ca/home) is a long-standing gateway to tools used for text
analysis and retrieval.

![Programming Historian logo](/assets/images/ph-en.svg "Programming Historian logo")

The [Programming Historian](https://programminghistorian.org/) publishes
novice-friendly, peer-reviewed tutorials that help humanists learn a wide range
of digital tools, techniques, and workflows to facilitate research and teaching.

![Standardization Survival Kit logo](/assets/images/source_ssk_logo.svg "Standardization Survival Kit logo")

The [Standardisation Survival Kit](http://ssk.huma-num.fr/#/) presents a
collection of research use case scenarios illustrating best practices in Digital
Humanities and Heritage research.

![Language Resource Switchboard logo](/assets/images/source-icon-services-switchboard.png)

The [Language Resource Switchboard](https://switchboard.clarin.eu/) helps you
find tools that can process your data.

![dblp computer science bibliography logo](/assets/images/source_dblp_logo_320x120.png "dblp computer science bibliography logo")

The [dblp computer science bibliography](https://dblp.org/) provides open
bibliographic information on major computer science journals and
proceedings. Only a subset of publications related to digital humanities is
being ingested in the SSH Open Marketplace.

![EOSC logo](/assets/images/source_eosc_logo.png "EOSC logo")

The [EOSC Portal catalogue & marketplace](https://marketplace.eosc-portal.eu/)
is an integrated platform that allows easy access to plenty of services and
resources for various research domains along with integrated data analytics
tools. Only a subset of resources, relevant for Social Sciences and Humanities,
is being ingested in the SSH Open Marketplace.

</div>


Linguistic, social sciences and cultural heritage sources will be added in 2021.
Manual and individual additions of content is also a way to further populate the
SSH Open Marketplace. More details are provided in the "How is this website
curated?" section below.

## Types of content

The conceptual approach used to structure and classify the SSH Open Marketplace
content led to the identification of 5 main types of content:

<div style={{ display: 'grid', gridTemplateColumns: '60px 1fr', columnGap: '1rem' }}>


![Tool or service](/assets/images/categories/tool-or-service.svg "Tool or service logo")

<div>


### Tools & services

Tools & services are materials or products used to perform activities. Under
this type of item, SSH Open Marketplace users will find desktop clients
solutions (to be installed locally), browser-based or command-line based
resources, mobile apps, programming libraries or APIs, but also data catalogues.
Example: Gephi is a visualisation and exploration software for all kinds of
graphs and networks

</div>
</div>


<div style={{ display: 'grid', gridTemplateColumns: '60px 1fr', columnGap: '1rem' }}>


![Training Material](/assets/images/categories/training-material.svg "Training Material")

<div>


### Training materials

Tutorials, lessons or didactic resources explaining how to perform an action or
highlighting the learning outcomes one would gain from engaging with the
material. Example: The lesson "Beginner's Guide to Twitter Data" coming from the
Programming Historian website.

</div>
</div>


<div style={{ display: 'grid', gridTemplateColumns: '60px 1fr', columnGap: '1rem' }}>


![Workflow](/assets/images/categories/workflow.svg "Workflow logo")

<div>


### Workflows

A research workflow is a sequence of operation/steps performed on research data
during their lifecycle. It can be seen as a recipe, as it was "designed" in the
Standardisation Survival Kit. This workflow can be achieved by using diverse
tools and facilities, and useful resources are connected to each step. Example:
"Extract textual content from images" is a workflow composed of 13 steps coming
from the Standardization Survival Kit.

</div>
</div>


<div style={{ display: 'grid', gridTemplateColumns: '60px 1fr', columnGap: '1rem' }}>


![Dataset](/assets/images/categories/dataset.svg "Dataset logo")

<div>


### Datasets

Dataset is one digital object or a set or collection of data, records or
information that is kept as a persistent unit of information in the knowledge
generation process. Datasets are used as evidence for some phenomena. Example:
Parlamint 1.0

</div>
</div>


<div style={{ display: 'grid', gridTemplateColumns: '60px 1fr', columnGap: '1rem' }}>


![Publication](/assets/images/categories/publication.svg "Publication logo")

<div>


### Publications

Research results published in an academic journal or repository. In the SSH Open
Marketplace, only publications that can be connected to other resources are
referenced. We don't aim at collecting all the research papers in SSH, but only
to reinforce the contextualisation of our resources, offering perspectives in
which a tool has been used and cited in a paper for exemple. Example:
"PoetryLab. An Open Source Toolkit for the Analysis of Spanish Poetry Corpora"
is a Conference Paper presented during the DH2020 Conference in which you can
find an example of use of the SpaCy library (referenced as a tool in the SSH
Open Marketplace).

</div>
</div>


## Main functionalities

In this beta version of the SSH Open Marketplace, you can:

- search among the resources, refining what you are looking for through faceted
  search
  ![screenshot search resources](/assets/images/search-refine-screenshot.png "screenshot search resources")
- browse the content, by activities or keywords
  ![browsing screenshot](/assets/images/browse_activities_screenshot.png "browsing screenshot")
- obtain a detailed view of every item registered in the website, including a
  structured set of metadata describing the resource, and highlighting the
  related items to facilitate the discovery of relevant resources
  ![detailed view screenshot](/assets/images/details-related-screenshot.jpg "detailed view screenshot")
- report issues. While waiting for more community features – such as the
  editorial components or the comments section – to be implemented in 2021, the
  beta release of the SSH Open Marketplace offers you the possibility to report
  issues on every page of the website. Help us to improve our content or to
  report a bug, using this temporary functionality!
- re-use the SSH Open Marketplace content using the Application programming
  Interface (API). See the API documentation in the "technical aspects" section,
  if you want to know more.

## Content Curation Guidelines

### Data Population and Curation

Because we believe that accurate and up-to-date content is a key to make the SSH
Open Marketplace a useful and rich discovery portal, data population and
curation are at the heart of our work. Once (meta)data have been ingested in the
Marketplace, we curate and enrich them thanks to a hybrid approach: automatic
checks are run on the ingested data, followed by manual review of the identified
problems as well as of aspects that cannot be checked automatically. In this
process, contributors and moderators are playing an essential role (see below
"How to contribute" section).

### Curation Criteria

Currently the curation criteria fall into three categories.

1. Scientific curation criteria: the SSH Open Marketplace as a discovery
   platform for the social sciences and humanities may be a suitable place for a
   broad range of research-relevant resources. Therefore at least two criterias
   have to be fulfilled by any resource: it needs to have relevance for science
   and scientists and it has to come with a SSH scope. The pertinence of the SSH
   scope as such is not further formalised and falls into the decision authority
   of Moderators. Particularly for resources such as technical services or
   software the SSH scope could be very loose. In such cases the relevance may
   be assessed by the uptake or prominence of a resource within the SSH
   community.
2. Technical curation criteria: at least two technical curation criteria have to
   be met by any resource. The resource has to be up-to-date and/or maintained.
   This criteria is crucial for the usefulness of any resource for the users.
   Ideally a resource is maintained and the maintainer is able to offer support
   for it. The second technical criteria relates to the openness of the
   resource. The SSH Open Marketplace facilitates the uptake of Open Science
   workflows and open research practices. Resources showcased in the Marketplace
   are preferably themselves – in case of software services – built upon open
   source solutions.
3. Legal/Ethical curation criteria: by design, the SSH Open Marketplace
   contributes to maximise the findability and re-use of data, providing the
   context and the support to realise the FAIR principles – Findable,
   Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable – for research data and guiding users
   towards tools, services or training materials that can help them in their
   FAIRification workflows. Apart from this the Marketplace has to be GDPR
   compliant in its usability. This has to be reflected in the manner of
   presentation of the resources and – more obvious – with regard to the user
   management.

In 2021, this approach will be further conceptualised to structure the editorial
guidelines and to ensure the (meta)data quality of the SSH Open Marketplace
content at every step of the curation workflows.

### Editorial Guidelines

Editorial guidelines presenting metadata used for the SSH Open Marketplace
content description will be added soon!

## How to contribute?

### Becoming a contributor

In a few months, you will be able to suggest new content in the SSH Open
Marketplace, but also to propose changes to existing items, via user-friendly
edit forms. In the meantime, you can use the "report an issue" function
available on all pages of the website to improve our content or to report a bug.

To stay tuned and updated about the developments, and to be aware of events and
hands-on sessions organised in 2021, join our community of testers,
[registering via the SSHOC website](https://www.sshopencloud.eu/user/register).

### Becoming a moderator

Towards the end of 2021, the editorial board of the SSH Open Marketplace will
also be created! Its mission is to ensure the quality of the Marketplace content
by reviewing new items and ensuring the editorial policy's implementation.
Moderators are key actors of the SSH Open Marketplace! Let us know if you would
be interested to join the SSH Open Marketplace editorial board!

_Because we believe that community efforts should not mean voluntary work, we
are investigating different paths for incentives and rewards for SSH Open
Marketplace contributors and moderators._
